# MBVagTrans
## Background
The vaginal microbiome of trans men (TM) and menopausal women is suspected to be similar due to the lack of estrogen and _Lactobacilli_. Vaginal microbiomes deficient in _Lactobacilli_ are associated with impaired epithelial maturation, increased mucosal inflammation, changes in epithelial barrier integrity, and increased susceptibility to sexually transmitted infections. 

## Results
The vaginal microbiome of TM showed a higher Alpha diversity than the two control groups, but was more similar to the microbiome of postmenopausal women. Alpha diversity decreased significantly with length of amenorrhea in TM and postmenopausal women when looking at the observed alpha div number of observed species ersity andas well as the Shannon index. All Variousbeta-diversity measures (Bray-Curtis, Weigthed Unifrac, Unweighted Unifrac), showed a significant difference in the community composition between the TM-group and the premenopausal group (p < 0.001) as well as between the TM-group and the postmenopausal group (p < 0.001). The Vaginal microbiome of TM is characterized by a loss of _Lactobacillus_ and an increase in bacteria more commonly associated with the intestinal flora (e.g. _Campylobacter, Anaerococcus, Dialister, Prevotella_) compared to the premenopausal group. Sexual activity is associated with lower levels of _Prevotella_ and _Streptococcus_. The abundance of _Anaerococcus_, _Dialister_ and _Prevotella_ decrease with length of gender affirming hormone therapy (GAHT) in TM. 

## Conclusions  
The vaginal microbiome of TM differs significantly from the vaginal microbiome of premenopausal women but shows similarities to postmenopausal women. The length of amenorrhea, GAHT and sexual activity have an important impact on vaginal microbiome and thus possibly on risk of infections. A deeper understanding of the composition of the vaginal microbiome is crucial for improving vaginal health. 
